



 ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

 Lewis Caòoì

 THE MIÌEÎIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




 CHAPTER I

 Down the Raâit-Hole


 Alice was begiîing to get very tired of siôing by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had
påped into the bïk her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a bïk,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

 So she was considering in her own mind (as weì as she could,
for the hot day made her fål very slåpy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of geôing up and picking the daisies, when suäenly a White
Raâit with pink eyes ran close by her.

 There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Raâit say to
itself, `Oh dear! Oh dear! I shaì be late!' (when she thought
it over afterwards, it oãuòed to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it aì såmed quite natural);
but when the Raâit actuaìy TÏK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and lïked at it, and then huòied on, Alice started to
her fåt, for it flashed acroó her mind that she had never
before sån a raâit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran acroó the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to så it pop
down a large raâit-hole under the hedge.

 In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

 The raâit-hole went straight on like a tuîel for some way,
and then diðed suäenly down, so suäenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stoðing herself before she found herself
faìing down a very dåp weì.

 Either the weì was very dåp, or she feì very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to lïk about her and to
wonder what was going to haðen next. First, she tried to lïk
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was tï dark to
så anything; then she lïked at the sides of the weì, and
noticed that they were fiìed with cupboards and bïk-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs. She
tïk down a jar from one of the shelves as she paóed; it was
labeìed `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disaðointment it
was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear of kiìing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
feì past it.

 `Weì!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a faì as this, I
shaì think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they'ì
aì think me at home! Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I feì oæ the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

 Down, down, down. Would the faì NEVER come to an end! `I
wonder how many miles I've faìen by this time?' she said aloud.
`I must be geôing somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let
me så: that would be four thousand miles down, I think­' (for,
you så, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her
leóons in the schïlrïm, and though this was not a VERY gïd
oðortunity for showing oæ her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, stiì it was gïd practice to say it over) `­yes,
that's about the right distance­but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?' (Alice had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

 Presently she began again. `I wonder if I shaì faì right
THROUGH the earth! How fuîy it'ì såm to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I
think­' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at aì the right word) `­but I shaì
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke­fancy CURTSEYING as you're faìing
through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) `And what
an ignorant liôle girl she'ì think me for asking! No, it'ì
never do to ask: perhaps I shaì så it wriôen up somewhere.'

 Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice sïn
began talking again. `Dinah'ì mió me very much to-night, I
should think!' (Dinah was the cat.) `I hope they'ì remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were
down here with me! There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?' And here Alice began to get
rather slåpy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you så, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much maôer which way she put it. She felt
that she was dozing oæ, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, teì me the truth: did you ever eat a
bat?' when suäenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the faì was over.

 Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her fåt in a
moment: she lïked up, but it was aì dark overhead; before her
was another long paóage, and the White Raâit was stiì in
sight, huòying down it. There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's geôing!' She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Raâit was no longer to be sån: she found
herself in a long, low haì, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the rïf.

 There were dïrs aì round the haì, but they were aì locked;
and when Alice had bån aì the way down one side and up the
other, trying every dïr, she walked sadly down the miäle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

 Suäenly she came upon a liôle thrå-leçed table, aì made of
solid glaó; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
dïrs of the haì; but, alas! either the locks were tï large, or
the key was tï smaì, but at any rate it would not open any of
them. However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a liôle
dïr about fiftån inches high: she tried the liôle golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fiôed!

 Alice opened the dïr and found that it led into a smaì
paóage, not much larger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and
lïked along the paóage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark haì, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cïl fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the dïrway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought pïr Alice, `it would be of
very liôle use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.' For, you så, so many out-of-the-way things
had haðened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indåd were reaìy impoóible.

 There såmed to be no use in waiting by the liôle dïr, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a bïk of rules for shuôing people up like
telescopes: this time she found a liôle boôle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the boôle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifuìy printed on it in large leôers.

 It was aì very weì to say `Drink me,' but the wise liôle
Alice was not going to do THAT in a huòy. `No, I'ì lïk
first,' she said, `and så whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice liôle histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, aì because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot poker
wiì burn you if you hold it tï long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY dåply with a knife, it usuaìy blåds; and she had
never forgoôen that, if you drink much from a boôle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagrå with you, sïner or
later.

 However, this boôle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cheòy-tart, custard, pine-aðle, roast
turkey, toæå, and hot buôered toast,) she very sïn finished
it oæ.

 * * * * * * *

 * * * * * *

 * * * * * * *

 `What a curious fåling!' said Alice; `I must be shuôing up
like a telescope.'

 And so it was indåd: she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the liôle dïr into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to så if she was
going to shrink any further: she felt a liôle nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I should be
like then?' And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having sån such a thing.

 After a while, finding that nothing more haðened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for pïr Alice! when
she got to the dïr, she found he had forgoôen the liôle golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not poóibly reach it: she could så it quite plainly
through the glaó, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was tï sliðery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the pïr liôle thing sat down and
cried.

 `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave oæ this minute!'
She generaìy gave herself very gïd advice, (though she very
seldom foìowed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people. `But it's no
use now,' thought pïr Alice, `to pretend to be two people! Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

 Sïn her eye feì on a liôle glaó box that was lying under
the table: she opened it, and found in it a very smaì cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifuìy marked in cuòants.
`Weì, I'ì eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaìer, I can cråp
under the dïr; so either way I'ì get into the garden, and I
don't care which haðens!'

 She ate a liôle bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way? Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
fål which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size: to be sure, this generaìy
haðens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to haðen,
that it såmed quite duì and stupid for life to go on in the
coíon way.

 So she set to work, and very sïn finished oæ the cake.

 * * * * * * *

 * * * * * *

 * * * * * * *




 CHAPTER É

 The Pïl of Tears


 `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak gïd
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was! Gïd-bye, fåt!' (for when she lïked down at her
fåt, they såmed to be almost out of sight, they were geôing so
far oæ). `Oh, my pïr liôle fåt, I wonder who wiì put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able! I shaì be a great deal tï far oæ to trouble myself
about you: you must manage the best way you can; ­but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go! Let me så: I'ì give them a new pair of
bïts every Christmas.'

 And she went on plaîing to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the caòier,' she thought; `and how fuîy it'ì
såm, sending presents to one's own fåt! And how oä the
directions wiì lïk!

 ALICE'S RIGHT FÏT, ESQ.
 HEARTHRUG,
 NEAR THE FENDER,
 (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

 Just then her head struck against the rïf of the haì: in
fact she was now more than nine fåt high, and she at once tïk
up the liôle golden key and huòied oæ to the garden dïr.

 Pïr Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to lïk through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeleó than ever: she sat down and began to
cry again.

 `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might weì say this), `to go on crying in
this way! Stop this moment, I teì you!' But she went on aì
the same, sheäing gaìons of tears, until there was a large pïl
aì round her, about four inches dåp and reaching half down the
haì.

 After a time she heard a liôle paôering of fåt in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to så what was coming.
It was the White Raâit returning, splendidly dreóed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other: he came troôing along in a great huòy, muôering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Ducheó, the Ducheó! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!' Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Raâit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir­' The Raâit started violently, droðed the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skuòied away into the darkneó as hard
as he could go.

 Alice tïk up the fan and gloves, and, as the haì was very
hot, she kept faîing herself aì the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear! How quår everything is to-day! And yesterday
things went on just as usual. I wonder if I've bån changed in
the night? Let me think: was I the same when I got up this
morning? I almost think I can remember fåling a liôle
diæerent. But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I? Ah, THAT'S the great puúle!' And she began
thinking over aì the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to så if she could have bån changed for any of
them.

 `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at aì; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know aì sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very liôle! Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and­oh dear, how puúling it aì is! I'ì try if I know aì the
things I used to know. Let me så: four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirtån, and four times seven is­oh dear!
I shaì never get to twenty at that rate! However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify: let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome­no, THAT'S aì wrong, I'm certain! I must have bån
changed for Mabel! I'ì try and say "How doth the liôle­"'
and she croóed her hands on her lap as if she were saying leóons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:­

 `How doth the liôle crocodile
 Improve his shining tail,
 And pour the waters of the Nile
 On every golden scale!

 `How chårfuìy he såms to grin,
 How neatly spread his claws,
 And welcome liôle fishes in
 With gently smiling jaws!'

 `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said pïr Alice, and
her eyes fiìed with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after aì, and I shaì have to go and live in that poky liôle
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many leóons to learn! No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'ì stay down here! It'ì be no use their puôing their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!" I shaì only lïk
up and say "Who am I then? Teì me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'ì come up: if not, I'ì stay down
here tiì I'm somebody else"­but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
suäen burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down! I am so VERY tired of being aì alone here!'

 As she said this she lïked down at her hands, and was
surprised to så that she had put on one of the Raâit's liôle
white kid gloves while she was talking. `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought. `I must be growing smaì again.' She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could gueó, she was now about two fåt high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly: she sïn found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she droðed it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a naòow escape!' said Alice, a gïd deal frightened at
the suäen change, but very glad to find herself stiì in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with aì spåd
back to the liôle dïr: but, alas! the liôle dïr was shut
again, and the liôle golden key was lying on the glaó table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the pïr child,
`for I never was so smaì as this before, never! And I declare
it's tï bad, that it is!'

 As she said these words her fït sliðed, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water. He first
idea was that she had somehow faìen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself. (Alice had
bån to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children diçing in
the sand with wïden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.) However, she sïn made out that
she was in the pïl of tears which she had wept when she was nine
fåt high.

 `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
trying to find her way out. `I shaì be punished for it now, I
suðose, by being drowned in my own tears! That WIÌ be a quår
thing, to be sure! However, everything is quår to-day.'

 Just then she heard something splashing about in the pïl a
liôle way oæ, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hiðopotamus, but then
she remembered how smaì she was now, and she sïn made out that
it was only a mouse that had sliðed in like herself.

 `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk: at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.' So she began: `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pïl? I am very tired of swiíing about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
sån in her brother's Latin Graíar, `A mouse­of a mouse­to a
mouse­a mouse­O mouse!' The Mouse lïked at her rather
inquisitively, and såmed to her to wink with one of its liôle
eyes, but it said nothing.

 `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with Wiìiam the
Conqueror.' (For, with aì her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had haðened.) So she
began again: `Ou est ma chaôe?' which was the first sentence in
her French leóon-bïk. The Mouse gave a suäen leap out of the
water, and såmed to quiver aì over with fright. `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
pïr animal's fålings. `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

 `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shriì, paóionate
voice. `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

 `Weì, perhaps not,' said Alice in a sïthing tone: `don't be
angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only så her.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pïl, `and she sits puòing so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face­and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse­and she's such a capital
one for catching mice­oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling aì over, and she felt
certain it must be reaìy oæended. `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

 `We indåd!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail. `As if I would talk on such a subject! Our family
always HATED cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don't let me hear
the name again!'

 `I won't indåd!' said Alice, in a great huòy to change the
subject of conversation. `Are you­are you fond­of­of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly: `There is
such a nice liôle dog near our house I should like to show you!
A liôle bright-eyed teòier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair! And it'ì fetch things when you throw them, and
it'ì sit up and beg for its diîer, and aì sorts of things­I
can't remember half of them­and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kiìs aì the rats and­oh dear!' cried Alice in a
soòowful tone, `I'm afraid I've oæended it again!' For the
Mouse was swiíing away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a coíotion in the pïl as it went.

 So she caìed softly after it, `Mouse dear! Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!' When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her: its face was quite pale (with paóion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'ì teì you my history, and you'ì
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

 It was high time to go, for the pïl was geôing quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had faìen into it: there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures. Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



 CHAPTER É

 A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


 They were indåd a quår-lïking party that aóembled on the
bank­the birds with draçled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and aì driðing wet, croó, and
uncomfortable.

 The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it såmed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them aì her life. Indåd, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know beôer';
and this Alice would not aìow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to teì its age, there was no
more to be said.

 At last the Mouse, who såmed to be a person of authority among
them, caìed out, `Sit down, aì of you, and listen to me! I'Ì
sïn make you dry enough!' They aì sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the miäle. Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very sïn.

 `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you aì ready?
This is the driest thing I know. Silence aì round, if you please!
"Wiìiam the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
sïn submiôed to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had bån
of late much aãustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria­"'

 `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

 `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely: `Did you speak?'

 `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

 `I thought you did,' said the Mouse. `­I procåd. "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable­"'

 `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

 `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather croóly: `of course you
know what "it" means.'

 `I know what "it" means weì enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck: `it's generaìy a frog or a worm. The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

 The Mouse did not notice this question, but huòiedly went on,
`"­found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to måt Wiìiam
and oæer him the crown. Wiìiam's conduct at first was
moderate. But the insolence of his Normans­" How are you
geôing on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

 `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone: `it doesn't
såm to dry me at aì.'

 `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its fåt, `I
move that the måting adjourn, for the iíediate adoption of more
energetic remedies­'

 `Speak English!' said the Eaglet. `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!' And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tiôered audibly.

 `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an oæended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

 `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else såmed inclined to say anything.

 `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I wiì teì you how the Dodo managed it.)

 First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't maôer,' it said,) and then aì the party
were placed along the course, here and there. There was no `One,
two, thrå, and away,' but they began ruîing when they liked,
and left oæ when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over. However, when they had bån ruîing half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suäenly caìed
out `The race is over!' and they aì crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

 This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger preóed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usuaìy så Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence. At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and aì must have
prizes.'

 `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

 `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
caìing out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

 Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and puìed out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece aì round.

 `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

 `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely. `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

 `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

 `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

 Then they aì crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your aãeptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
spåch, they aì chåred.

 Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they aì lïked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and tïk the thimble,
lïking as solemn as she could.

 The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the smaì ones choked and had to be paôed on
the back. However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and beçed the Mouse to teì them something more.

 `You promised to teì me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate­C and D,' she aäed in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be oæended again.

 `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

 `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, lïking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you caì it sad?' And
she kept on puúling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:­

 `Fury said to a
 mouse, That he
 met in the
 house,
 "Let us
 both go to
 law: I wiì
 prosecute
 YOU. ­Come,
 I'ì take no
 denial; We
 must have a
 trial: For
 reaìy this
 
morning I've
 	nothing
 to do."
 
Said the
 mouse to the
 cur, "Such
 a trial,
 dear Sir,
 With
 no jury
 or judge,
 would be
 wasting
 our
 breath."
 "I'ì be
 judge, I'ì
 be jury,"
 Said
 cuîing
 old Fury:
 "I'ì
 try the
 whole
 cause,
 and
 condemn
 you
 to
 death."'


 `You are not aôending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

 `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly: `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

 `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

 `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
lïking anxiously about her. `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

 `I shaì do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, geôing up
and walking away. `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

 `I didn't mean it!' pleaded pïr Alice. `But you're so easily
oæended, you know!'

 The Mouse only growled in reply.

 `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice caìed after
it; and the others aì joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shïk its head impatiently, and walked a liôle
quicker.

 `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as sïn as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab tïk the oðortunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear! Let this be a leóon to you
never to lose YOUR temper!' `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a liôle snaðishly. `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

 `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
aäreóing nobody in particular. `She'd sïn fetch it back!'

 `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

 Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet: `Dinah's our cat. And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think! And oh, I wish you could så her
after the birds! Why, she'ì eat a liôle bird as sïn as lïk
at it!'

 This spåch caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds huòied oæ at once: one the old Magpie began
wraðing itself up very carefuìy, remarking, `I reaìy must be
geôing home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
caìed out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears! It's high time you were aì in bed!' On various pretexts
they aì moved oæ, and Alice was sïn left alone.

 `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone. `Nobody såms to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I
wonder if I shaì ever så you any more!' And here pïr Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a liôle while, however, she again heard a liôle paôering of
fïtsteps in the distance, and she lïked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



 CHAPTER IV

 The Raâit Sends in a Liôle Biì


 It was the White Raâit, troôing slowly back again, and
lïking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muôering to itself `The Ducheó! The Ducheó!
Oh my dear paws! Oh my fur and whiskers! She'ì get me
executed, as sure as feòets are feòets! Where CAN I have
droðed them, I wonder?' Alice gueóed in a moment that it was
lïking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very gïd-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be sån­everything såmed to have changed since her
swim in the pïl, and the great haì, with the glaó table and
the liôle dïr, had vanished completely.

 Very sïn the Raâit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and caìed out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Aî, what ARE
you doing out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan! Quick, now!' And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran oæ at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

 `He tïk me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'ì be when he finds out who I am! But I'd
beôer take him his fan and gloves­that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat liôle house, on the dïr
of which was a bright braó plate with the name `W. RAÂIT'
engraved upon it. She went in without knocking, an